Failover definition

Failover is the ability to switch automatically and seamlessly to a reliable backup system. 

 either a standby operational mode or redundancy should achieve failover
  and lessen or eliminate negative impact on users.

  all backup techniques including standby computer server systems must themselves be 
  immune to failure, because failover is critical to disaster recovery (DR).

  Failover automation in servers includes pulse or heartbeat conditions. 

   heartbeat cables connect two servers or multiple servers in a network 
   with the primary server always active

   However, should the secondary server perceive any change in the pulse from the 
   primary failover server, it will initiate its instances and take over the primary 
   server’s operations

   . It will also message the technician or data center requesting 
   that they bring the primary server back online.

   Virtualization simulates a computer environment using a virtual machine or 
   pseudo machine running host software. In this way, the failover process can be
    independent of the physical hardware components of computer server systems.

    How does failover work?

    Active Active, Active Passive, Active Standby -> Most common config for HA 

    Each implementation technique achieves failover in a different way, 
    although both improve reliability.

ACTIVE ACTIVE:

    The active-active cluster distributes workloads across all the nodes more evenly,
     preventing any single node from overloading and achieving load balancing.

     Throughput is the rate at which work gets done or data gets successfully transmitted 
     through a system, process, or network within a specific time

     AA achieves workload distb evenly among nodes , preventing single node to overload and 
     thus attaining load balancing  -> throughput and response times improve

     to ensure the HA cluster operates seamlessly and achieves redundancy, the individual 
     configurations and settings of the nodes should be identical.

ACTIVE PASSIVE:

    although there must be at least two nodes, not all of them are active.
    wo node system with the first node active, the second node will remain 
    passive or on standby as the failover server.

     In this standby operational mode, it can remain ready should the active, primary 
     server stop functioning to serve as a backup. However, unless there is a failure,
     clients only connect to the active server.

     Just as in the active-active cluster, both servers in the active-standby cluster must
      be configured with the very same settings. This way, clients cannot perceive any 
      change in service,

      Clearly, in an active-standby cluster although the standby node is always running,
       actual utilization approaches zero.

      In an active-active cluster, utilization of both nodes nears half and half— although 
      each node can handle the entire load alone. However, this also means that node failure 
      can cause performance to degrade if one active-active configuration node handles more
       than half of the load consistently. 

       Outage time during a failure is virtually zero with an active-active HA configuration, 
       because both paths are active


What is a failover cluster?

A failover cluster is a set of computer servers that provide fault tolerance (FT), 
continuous availability (CA), or high availability (HA) together.

 may use virtual machines (VMs)/Phys hardwa or BOTH

 If one of the servers in a failover cluster goes down, this triggers the failover process. 
 Instantly sending the failed component’s workload to another node in the cluster, 
 this prevents downtime.

Providing either HA or CA for applications and services is a failover cluster’s primary goal.
Also known as fault tolerant (FT) clusters, 

 CA clusters eliminate downtime when main or primary systems fail, enabling end users to keep
  using applications and services without interruptions or timeouts.

  In contrast, despite a potential brief interruption in service, HA clusters offer minimal 
  downtime, automatic recovery, and no data loss. 

  Internet failover is essentially a redundant or secondary internet connection to be used 
  as a failover link in case of a failure. 

  What is an application server failover?

  Application servers are simply servers that run applications.
  This means that application server failover is a failover strategy to protect these types of servers.

  At a minimum, these application servers should have unique domain 
  names, and ideally they should run on different servers.

  best practices include load balancing.

  What is Failover testing

  Failover testing validates a system’s capacity during a server failure to allocate
   sufficient resources toward recovery. 

   The test will determine whether the system has the capacity in the event of any 
   kind of abnormal termination or failure to handle necessary extra resources and move
   operations to backup systems.

   ability of the system to manage and power an additional CPU or multiple servers once it
   achieves a threshold for performance 

   What is failover and failback?
    We know what failover is by this point.
   Typically, failover involves using a failover tool or failover service of some type to 
   temporarily halt and restart operations from a remote location.

   A failback operation involves returning production to its original location after a
    scheduled maintenance period or a disaster. 

    Typically, systems designers offer failover capability in systems, servers, 
    or networks demanding CA, HA, or a high level of reliability.

    Failover practices have also become less reliant on physical hardware 
    with little or no disruption in service thanks to the use of virtualization

    