Distributed tracing is a method of observing requests as they propagate through 
distributed cloud environments

Organizations may use different types of distributed tracing, including the following:

Code tracing. With this method, a developer manually interprets the results of each 
line of code within an application. Code tracing tracks the variable values as they 
change during execution to determine the output of the code. 

Data tracing. Developers use data tracing to perform data accuracy and quality checks 
on critical data elements (CDEs) that are essential from a business perspective. 

Program trace. This command delivers an index of the instructions that have been executed, 
as well as the data that has been referenced while an application has been running.

The benefits of distributed tracing

Reduced mean time to detect (MTTD) and mean time to repair (MTTR). Distributed tracing 
enables teams to get to the bottom of application performance issues faster, 
often before users notice anything wrong

Improved compliance with SLAs. The organization can also maintain a high-quality user experience and improve its compliance with SLAs.
Protected bottom-line growth. This minimizes potential effects to the bottom line and helps the organization maintain a steady flow of revenue.
Faster time to market. As a result, organizations can get to market with new products and services much more quickly, gaining a competitive advantage.

Manual instrumentation. Although distributed tracing is meant to save teams time,
 some tools require developers to manually instrument or adjust 
their code before allowing them to configure distributed tracing requests.

Limited to back-end coverage. Some tools that don’t take an end-to-end approach to 
distributed tracing only generate a trace ID for a request when it reaches the
 first back-end service,

 Head-based sampling. If a tracing tool simply samples traces randomly at the 
 start of each request, some traces may fall through the cracks.

 DevOps, operations teams, and site reliability engineers (SREs) all find distributed tracing useful for the following situations:

understanding the current health of microservices within a distributed system;
rapidly identifying the root cause of errors in the same setting; and
spotting performance bottlenecks that either currently affect or potentially impact the user experience.

What is centralized logging?
Centralized logging is a method of recording activity wherein a team transports and stores
 the logs generated by a service or component in
 a single location. This enables teams to centrally track error reporting and related data. 

 What is distributed logging?
In contrast, distributed logging is a method of recording activity in logs that are located throughout 
the computing environment, often across multiple clouds. 

