Broadcast Protocols
The popular message broadcasting techniques in a distributed system are the following:

point-to-point broadcast
eager reliable broadcast
gossip protocol

The producer sends a message directly to the consumers in a point-to-point broadcast.
Eager Reliable Broadcast
Every node re-broadcasts the messages to every other node via reliable network links. 

Gossip Protocol
The gossip protocol is a decentralized peer-to-peer communication 
technique to transmit messages in an enormous distributed system 
the gossip protocol is a technique for nodes to build a global map through limited local interactions

The gossip protocol is reliable because a node failure can be overcome by the
 retransmission of a message by another node. First-in-first-out (FIFO) broadcast,
  causality broadcast, and total order broadcast can be implemented with gossip protocol [3].

The following characteristics of the gossip protocol make it an optimal choice as the communication protocol in a large-scale distributed system [12]:

limits the number of messages transmitted by each node
limits the bandwidth consumption to prevent the degradation of application performance
tolerates network and node failures

The tombstone is a special entry to invalidate the data entries that have a matching key without 
actual deletion of the data. 

Types of Gossip Protocol

Anti-Entropy Gossip Protocol 

The anti-entropy algorithm was introduced to reduce the entropy between replicas of a stateful service such as the database.
 The replicated data is compared and the difference between replicas are patched
  [10]. The node with the newest message shares it with other nodes in every gossip
   round [8].

Rumor-Mongering Gossip Protocol
The rumor-mongering protocol is also known as the dissemination protocol. 
The rumor-mongering cycle occurs relatively more frequently than anti-entropy
 cycles and floods the network with the worst-case load [10]. The rumor-mongering
  model utilizes fewer resources such as network bandwidth as only the latest updates 
  are transferred across nodes [8].

  Aggregation Gossip Protocol
The aggregation gossip protocol computes a system-wide aggregate by sampling information 
across every node and combining the values to generate a system-wide value [10].

push model
pull model
push-pull model
Push Model

The push model is efficient when there are only a few update messages due to the
 traffic overhead. The node with the latest message sends the message to a random 
 subset of other nodes in the push model [8].

Pull Model

Every node will actively poll a random subset of nodes for any update messages in the pull 
model. This approach is efficient when there are many update messages because 
it is highly likely to find a node with the latest update message [8].

Push-Pull Model

The push-pull model is optimal to disseminate update messages quickly and reliably [2].
 The node can push a new update message and the node can also poll for new update messages.
  The push approach is efficient during the initial phase when there are only a very
   few nodes with update messages.


Gossip Protocol Advantages
The advantages of gossip protocol are the following 

scalable
Scalability is the ability of the system to handle the increasing load without degradation of the performance 

fault tolerant
The redundancy, parallelism, and randomness offered by the gossip protocol improve the 
fault tolerance of the system

robust
The symmetric nature of the nodes participating in the gossip protocol improves 
the robustness of the system. A node failure will not disrupt the system quality.
 The gossip protocol is also robust against transient network partitions. 

convergent consistency
Consistency is the technique of ensuring the same state view across every node in the system.
The gossip protocol converges to a consistent state in logarithmic time complexity through the exponential spread of data

decentralized
simplicity
integration and interoperability
The gossip protocol can be integrated and interoperated with distributed system components such as the database, cache, and queue

Disadvantages

eventual consistency
unawareness of network partitions
relatively high bandwidth consumption
increased latency
difficulty in debugging and testing
prone to computational errors

Gossip Protocol Use Cases
The gossip protocol is used in a multitude of applications where eventual consistency is favored. The popular applications of the gossip protocol are as follows [8], [5], [4], [7], [12]:

database replication
information dissemination
maintaining cluster membership
failure detection
generate aggregations (calculate average, maximum, sum)

Apache Cassandra employs the gossip protocol to maintain cluster membership,
Amazon S3 uses the gossip protocol to spread server state across the system
Amazon Dynamo employs the gossip protocol for failure detection, and keeping track of node membership
Redis cluster uses the gossip protocol to propagate the node metadata
Bitcoin uses the gossip protocol to spread the nonce value across the mining nodes