3 main problems with microservices architecture are:

Dependency

Scale

Variance

1. Dependency Here are 4 scenarios where the dependency problem occurs:
i. Intra-Service Requests
A client request results in a service calling another service. Put another way,
 service A needs to call service B to create a response.

The problem with it is that a failure of a microservice results in cascading failures. The solutions are:

Use the circuit breaker pattern to prevent cascading failures. It avoids an operation that will probably fail

Do fault injection testing to check if the circuit breaker pattern works as expected. It does it by creating artificial traffic

Set up fallback to a static page to keep the system always responsive

ii Client Libraries
An API gateway allows the reuse of business logic across many types of clients.

An API gateway is a central entry point that routes API requests. But it has the
 following limitations:

Heap consumption becomes difficult to manage
Potential logical defects or bugs
Potential transitive dependencies

III Persistence

The choice of the storage layer depends on the CAP theorem. Put another way,
 it is a trade-off decision between availability and consistency level.

 iv Infrastructure The entire data center might fail. So the solution is to replicate 
 the infrastructure across many data centers.

 2. Scale

 The ability of the system to manage increased workload while maintaining performance
  is called scale. The 3 dimensions of horizontal scalability are:

Keep the service stateless if possible
Partition the service if it can't be stateless
Replicate the service

Stateless Services
The 2 qualities of stateless service are:

There is no instance affinity (sticky sessions). Put another way, 
requests don't get routed to the same server

Failure of a stateless service is not notable

The stateless service needs to be replicated for high availability. And autoscaling must be set up for on-demand replication.

Also autoscaling reduces the impact of the following problems:

Reduced compute efficiency

Node failures   
Traffic spikes
Performance bugs

Chaos engineering checks whether autoscaling works as expected. It tests system resilience through controlled disruptions 
to ensure improved reliability.

 Stateful Services
The database and cache are stateful services. Also a custom service that holds
 large amounts of data is a stateful service. The failure of a stateful service is a 
 Notable event.

An anti-pattern with the stateful service is having a sticky session without replication. 
Because it creates a single point of failure.

 Hybrid Services
A cache is a hybrid service. A hybrid service expects an extreme load. For example, 
Netflix’s cache gets 30 million requests per second.

The best approach to building a hybrid service is the following:

Partition the workload using techniques like consistent hashing
Enable request-level caching
Allow fallback to a database


The variety in the software architecture is called variance. The system complexity
 grows as variance increases.

Here are 2 scenarios where the scale problem occurs:

i Operational Drift
Operational drift is the unintentional variance that happens as time passes. 
It is usually a side-effect of new features added to the system. The examples of 
operational drift are:

Increased alert thresholds
Increased timeouts
Degraded throughput

Polyglot
The variance introduced by engineers on purpose is called Polyglot. It happens when 
different programming languages are used to create different microservices.

It comes with the following drawbacks:
A large amount of work needed to get productive tooling
Extra operational complexity
Difficulty in server management
Business logic duplication across many technologies
Increased learning curve to become an expert

